Update reference hardware (#3564)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/maintain/maintain-guides-how-to-validate-polkadot.md

### Requirements

The most common way for a beginner to run a validator is on a cloud server running Linux. You may
choose whatever [VPS](#note-about-vps) provider that your prefer. As OS it is best to use a recent Debian Linux. For this guide we will be using **Ubuntu 22.04**, but the instructions should be
similar for other platforms.

#### Reference Hardware

> The transactions weights in Polkadot were benchmarked on reference hardware. We ran the benchmark on VM instances of two major cloud providers: Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Amazon Web Services (AWS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transaction weights in Polkadot are benchmarked on reference hardware. We ran the benchmark on VM instances of two major cloud providers: Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Amazon Web Services (AWS).
```

> On GCP we used `c2d-highcpu-8` VM instance, on AWS `c6id.2xlarge`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be specific, we used `c2d-highcpu-8` VM instance on GCP and `c6id.2xlarge` on AWS.
```

> It is recommended that hardware used to run the validators at least match the specs of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that the hardware used to run the validators at least matches the specs of
```

the reference hardware in order to ensure they are able to process all blocks

> in time. If you use subpar hardware you will possibly run into performance issues, less era points and even slashes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in time. If you use subpar hardware you will possibly run into performance issues, get less era points, and potentially even slashed.
```

> in time. If you use subpar hardware you will possibly run into performance issues, get less era points, and potentially even slashed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in time. If you use subpar hardware you will possibly run into performance issues, get less era points, and potentially even get slashed.
```

- **CPU**
  - x86-64 compatible;
  - Intel Ice Lake, or newer (Xeon or Core series); AMD Zen3, or newer (EPYC or Ryzen);
  - 4 physical cores @ 3.4GHz;
  - Simultaneous multithreading disabled (Hyper-Threading on Intel, SMT on AMD);
  - Prefer single-threaded performance over higher cores count. A comparison of single-threaded performance can be found [here](https://www.cpubenchmark.net/singleThread.html).
- **Storage**

>   - An NVMe SSD of 1 TB (As it should be reasonably sized to deal with blockchain growth). An estimation of current chain snapshot sizes can be found [here](https://paranodes.io/DBSize). In general the latency is more important than the throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - An NVMe SSD of 1 TB (As it should be reasonably sized to deal with blockchain growth). An estimation of current chain snapshot sizes can be found [here](https://paranodes.io/DBSize). In general, the latency is more important than the throughput.
```

- **Memory**
  - 16GB DDR4 ECC.
- **System**
  - Linux Kernel 5.16 or newer.
- **Network**

>   - The minimum symmetric networking speed is set to 500 Mbit/s (= 62.5 MB/s). This is required to support a large number of para-chains and allow for proper congestion control in busy network situations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The minimum symmetric networking speed is set to 500 Mbit/s (= 62.5 MB/s). This is required to support a large number of parachains and allow for proper congestion control in busy network situations.
```

reasonably in sync, so you should be running NTP or a similar service. You can check whether you
have the NTP client by running:

> _If you are using Ubuntu 18.04 or newer, NTP Client should be installed by default._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_If you are using Ubuntu 18.04 or a newer version, NTP Client should be installed by default._
```

:::note Compilation Errors

> If you run into compile errors, you may have to pin the version of Rust compiler to one that was used to build the release. Check out `Rust compiler versions` section in the release notes. This can be done by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run into compile errors, you may have to pin the version of Rust compiler to the one that was used to build the release. Check out `Rust compiler versions` section in the release notes. This can be done by running:
```

done by running:

```sh
rustup install nightly-2022-05-18
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown --toolchain nightly-2022-05-18

> cargo +nightly-2022-05-18 build --release

Reviewer 2: do we always need to specify a specific rust nightly date? they cannot just always try latest nightly?

Reviewer 3: We should say to check the release notes, as the rust versions are pinnned to the release that our clean room machine builds our binaries with that successfully work

Reviewer 4: I updated the Rust compiler recommendations and suggested to check out the release notes for the exact version if one runs into the compilation errors.

Reviewer 5: I think we use new Rust features almost as quickly as they come out so I think it's probably better to do what Shawn is suggesting: go with the latest nightly.

Author: I put in in here https://github.com/w3f/polkadot-wiki/issues/3653

./target/release/polkadot purge-chain
```

:::info

Check out the [Substrate StackExchange](https://substrate.stackexchange.com/) to quickly get the answers you need.

:::

## Note about VPS

VPS providers are very popular for running servers of any kind.
Extensive benchmarking was conducted to ensure that VPS servers are able to keep up with the work load in general.

> This does not mean that every provider who advertises a specific performance will also deliver it.
> Please do your own verification that you get the advertised performance before running a live validator on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::note

Before you run a live Validator, please verify if the advertised performance is actually delivered consistently by the VPS provider.

:::
```

> The following server types showed acceptable performance. Please note that this is not an endorsement in any way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following server types showed acceptable performance during the benchmark tests. Please note that this is not an endorsement in any way:
```

- GCP's *c2* and *c2d* machine families
- AWS's *c6id* machine family

The following additional configurations were applied to the instances to tune their performance:

### Disable [SMT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simultaneous_multithreading)

> As critical path of Substrate is single-threaded we need to optimize for single-core CPU performance. The node still profits from multiple cores when doing networking and other non-runtime operations. It is therefore still necessary to run it on at least the minimum required number of cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As critical path of Substrate is single-threaded, we need to optimize for single-core CPU performance. The node still benefits from multiple cores when doing networking and other non-runtime operations. It is therefore still necessary to run it on at least the minimum required number of cores.
```

Disabling SMT improves the performance as each vCPU becomes mapped to a physical CPU core rather than being presented to the OS as two logical cores.

> SMT implementation on Intel is called Hyper-Threading, on AMD Zen it is 2-way SMT. To disable SMT in runtime:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SMT implementation is called _Hyper-Threading _on Intel  and _2-way SMT_ on AMD Zen. To disable SMT in runtime:
```

```bash
for cpunum in $(cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/topology/thread_siblings_list | cut -s -d, -f2- | tr ',' '\n' | sort -un)
do
  echo 0 > /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu$cpunum/online
done
```
It will disable every other (vCPU) core.

To save changes permanently add `nosmt=force` as kernel parameter. Edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `nosmt=force` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` variable and run `sudo update-grub`. After the reboot you should see half of the cores are offline. Run `lscpu --extended` to confirm.

### Disable automatic NUMA balancing

> If you have multiple physical CPUs (CPU0 and CPU1) in the system each with its own memory bank (MB0 and MB1) than it is usually slower for a CPU0 to access MB1 due to the slower interconnect. To prevent the OS from automatically moving the running Substrate process from one CPU to another thus causing an increased latency, it is recommended to disable automatic NUMA balancing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple physical CPUs (CPU0 and CPU1) in the system each with its own memory bank (MB0 and MB1), then it is usually slower for a CPU0 to access MB1 due to the slower interconnection. To prevent the OS from automatically moving the running Substrate process from one CPU to another and thus causing an increased latency, it is recommended to disable automatic NUMA balancing.
```

> With automatic NUMA balancing disabled an OS will always run a process on the same NUMA node where it was initially scheduled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With automatic NUMA balancing disabled, an OS will always run a process on the same NUMA node where it was initially scheduled.
```

To disable NUMA balancing in runtime:
```bash
sysctl kernel.numa_balancing=0
```

> To save changes permanently update startup options and reconfigure GRUB. Edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `numa_balancing=disable` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` variable and run `sudo update-grub`. After reboot you can confirm the change by running `sysctl -a | grep 'kernel.numa_balancing'` and checking if the parameter is set to 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To save changes permanently, update startup options and reconfigure GRUB. Edit `/etc/default/grub` and add `numa_balancing=disable` to `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` variable and run `sudo update-grub`. After reboot you can confirm the change by running `sysctl -a | grep 'kernel.numa_balancing'` and checking if the parameter is set to 0
```

### Configure Spectre/Meltdown Mitigations

> Spectre and Meltdown are vulnerabilities discovered in modern CPUs a few years ago. There were multiple variations of the attack as mitigations had been coming to the Linux kernel. Check out https://meltdownattack.com/ for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spectre and Meltdown are vulnerabilities discovered in modern CPUs a few years ago. Mitigations were made to the Linux kernel to cope with the multiple variations of these attacks . Check out https://meltdownattack.com/ for more info.
```

> Initially those mitigations added ~20% penalty to the performance of the workloads. As CPU manufacturers started to roll-out mitigations implemented in hardware, the performance gap [narrowed down](https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=3-years-specmelt&num=1). As the benchmark demonstrates the performance penalty got reduced to ~7% on Intel 10th Gen CPUs. This is true for the workloads running on both bare-metal and VMs. But the penalty remains high for the containerized workloads in some cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initially those mitigations added ~20% penalty to the performance of the workloads. As CPU manufacturers started to roll-out mitigations implemented in hardware, the performance gap [narrowed down](https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=3-years-specmelt&num=1). As the benchmark demonstrates, the performance penalty got reduced to ~7% on Intel 10th Gen CPUs. This is true for the workloads running on both bare-metal and VMs. But the penalty remains high for the containerized workloads in some cases.
```
